Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina today alerted the countrymen to conspiracies of the anti-liberation forces to foil independence and turn Bangladesh into a failed state, asserting that the plots of the “Pakistani-lovers” will never be successful.

“The collaborators of the Pakistani occupation forces and those who still love Pakistan are out to foil Bangladesh’s hard-earned independence and turn the country into a failed state. But we won’t allow their conspiracies to be successful,” she said.

The prime minister said this while taking part in a discussion at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre here this afternoon.

Bangladesh Awami League (AL) organised the discussion on the occasion of the 49th Victory Day.

Sheikh Hasina, also the AL president, said Bangladesh earned independence in exchange for blood of millions of martyrs. “They joined the liberation war responding to the call of Bangabandhu and struggled throughout their life for this independence … their sacrifice cannot go in vain,” she said.


The premier said Bangladesh fought and won the liberation war against Pakistan. “Our goal was that we’ll remain above Pakistan anyhow on all sides including economic, social and cultural fronts. We truly stay there,” she said.

She went on saying: “We are in a better position than everybody else. We must keep up this success.”

The AL president said wherever the Pakistani-lovers stay – in jail or abroad – their plots will be there.

“We’ll have to foil their conspiracies by remembering the words of the Father of the Nation that none could suppress seven crore Bangalees… we’re now 16 crore people.”

AL Advisory Council Members Amir Hossain Amu and Tofail Ahmed, Presidium Member Begum Matia Chowdhury, General Secretary Obaidul Quader and Joint Secretary Jahangir Kabir Nanak took part in the discussion.

AL Publicity and Publication Secretary and Information Minister Dr Hasan Mahmud and Deputy Publication and Publicity Secretary Aminul Islam Amin conducted the discussion.

Besides, AL Central Committee Member Mofazzal Hossain Chowdhury Maya, Dhaka North City AL General Secretary SM Mannan Kachi and Dhaka South City AL General Secretary Humayun Kabir spoke.

AL Central Committee Member Marina Jahan Kabita recited a poem titled “Bangabandhu: Tumi-e Bangladesh” at the discussion.